Analysis: Detailed examination of something

Bachelor degree: Is an undergraduate degree awarded by universities

Backend developer: A programmer who creates the backend of a website, software or information system

Business: A commercial activity

Careers: An occupation undertaken for a significant period of time

CEO - Chief executive officer: The highest ranking person in a company or other institution

Cheerful: Happy and optimistic

City of residence: The city where a person lives

Collaborate: To work jointly with someone

Colleagues: A person with whom you work

Communications: The act of exchanging information

Company: A commercial business

Confident: Feeling or believing trust in oneself

Content marketing: A type of marketing which is focused on creating content to attract clients

Copy-writing: Act of writing text for advertising purposes

Curriculum Vitae - CV: A brief account of a person’s, qualifications, and previous occupations

Curious: Eager to know and learn things

CTO - Chief technology officer: The person in charge of technology operations within a company

Descriptive: A detailed characterization of something

Design: A plan or drawing that shows the functionalities of something

Designer: A person who plans the functionalities of something

Determined: Having a firm decision or thought about something

Draw: Produce a diagram of a person, an animal or an object

Entrepreneur: A person who owns a business or company

Experience: The events a person has lived and that has left impression

Event: A thing that happens or takes place

Feedback: Information about the performance of a person in a given task

Fields: A particular branch of study

Frontend developer: A developer who creates websites or web applications with which the user can interact directly

Goal-oriented: Focused on achieving one objective only

Graduate education: Degrees obtained after the bachelor education

Growth: Something that has grown over time

Growth team: The team that is in charge of expanding the value of a company

Job: A paid position of regular employment

Junior: Low or lower in rank and status

Illustrator: A person who draws and creates pictures

Improve: To make or become better

Interview: A meeting of people face to face

Leader: A person who commands a group

Logic: Reasoning conducted according to strict parameters of validity

Marketing professional: A person who is in charge of running marketing campaigns

Master’s degree: A degree awarded by university upon the completion of a course of study demonstrating master knowledge of a field

Portfolio: A folder which contains samples of work, like drawings, projects and outcomes

Position: The role that a person assumes in a company

Product areas: The area in charge of developing a product

Proactive: Controlling the situation and proposing new solutions

Professional profile: A short description of a person in their professional dimension

Programmer: A person who writes computer programs

Project: An enterprise that is planned to achieve a goal

Project Manager: The person in charge of a project

Organize: Arrange something systematically

Outgoing: Friendly and sociable

Outstanding: Exceptionally good

Recognition: The acknowledgement of a person within a given field

Research: The systematic study of a field

Sales: The exchange of commodities for money

Sensitive: Highly responsive or susceptible

Senior: With high or higher rank

Skill: The ability to do something

Speciality: A subject of study or line of work

Social networks: A network of social interactions. A website dedicated to social interactions

Social relationships: Any relation between two individuals

Sociable: Willing to talk, interact with others and engage in social activities

Software: Programs used by a computer

Start-up: A newly established business

Strategy: A plan to achieve a specific goal

Strengths: The things a person considers his or her qualities

Stress: The state of mental tension

Support professional: A professional in charge of assisting customers

Talent: Natural aptitude or skill

Task: An activity to be done

Teamwork: The action of a group, especially when is effective

Tech-world: Industry of technology

UI designer: The person in charge of designing the interface for the user

Update: Bring something to a new version

UX designer: The person in charge of designing the user experience

Visualize: Form a mental image of a person, an object or an event

Wardrobe: A person’s entire collection of clothes

Weaknesses: The things that a person considers he or she needs to work on

Webinars: A seminar conducted over the internet

Workflows: A sequence of processes to complete a specific task

Workplace: The physical place in which a person performs his or her work



ENGLISH IN THE WORKPLACE

Accomplish: Achieve or complete something completely

Apps: A program or software that is designed to fulfill a particular purpose

Argue: Give reasons and evidence to support an idea

Assert: State a fact forcefully

Assertive: Having a confident personality

Audience: A group of spectators in the display of something

Attack: Take aggressive actions against something or someone

Attentive: Paying close attention to something

Avoid: Keep away from doing something

Aware: Having knowledge of an event or a fact

Behavior: The way in which a person acts or conducts oneself

Boss: A person who is in charge or a business

Brands: A type of product manufactured under the name of a specific company

Carefully: In a way that avoids mistakes and errors when doing something

Challenge: A task that needs great mental or physical effort to be achieved

Channel: The way or media through which information is conveyed

Chat: A digital channel frequently used in informal communication

Claim: Assert or state something

Clarify: Make a statement more comprehensible

Clients: A person or company who uses the services or products of a company

Concise: Giving enough information clearly and using a few words

Conclude: Get to a judgement or position

Context: The circumstances that from the setting for an event

Confirm: Establish the truth or correctness

Control: The power to influence or change people’s behaviors and the functionalities of things

Cover: Put something in front or over something else

Coworkers: A person with whom one works

Data: Facts and statistics collected together for reference or analysis

Encrypt: Cover information into code, especially to prevent unauthorized access

Demonstrate: Clearly demonstrate the existence of something

Digital communication: The exchange of messages and meaning through digital media

Direct: Without intervening factors

Discover: Find unexpectedly during research

Email: Messages distributed through by electronic means from one user to a recipient or a group of recipients through a network

Employees: A person employed for wages or salary

Ethics: Moral principles that governs a person’s behavior

Experiment: A scientific procedure to make a discovery

Find: Discover something by chance

Fluent: Easy to express oneself easily and clearly

Formal: Done in accordance with convention and etiquette

For starters: First of all, to start with

Fraud: Criminal intention intended to result in financial or personal gain

Hack: Gain unauthorized access to data in a system or computer

Hard drive: A disk drive used to read from and write to a hard disk

Harassment: Aggressive pressure or intimidation

Interact: Act in a way as to have an effect on each other

Internet: A global computer network which facilitates communications

Intimidating: Something that frightens someone

Intrusive: Causing disruption or annoyance through being unwelcome or uninvited

Involved: Something or someone included in a situation

Letter: A written or typed communication usually sent in an envelop by messenger

Message: A communication sent by any channel

Mission: An important assignment given to a person to complete

Microphone: An instrument used to convert sound waves into electrical energy variations

Necessary: Needed to be done, achieved or present

Notepad: A pad of blank paper to write notes

Objectives: A thing to be achieved

Organizations: An organized group of people with a common goal

On behalf of: To speak for someone or an organization

Password: A secret word or phrase used to get access to a place

Pertinent: Relevant or applicable to a particular matter

Permission: The official authorization to do a particular thing

Privacy: A state in which one is not observed by others

Prove: Demonstrate the truth or existence of something

Providers: A person or entity that provides something

Purchase: Acquire something by paying for it

Regularly: With a constant or definite pattern

Reject: Dismiss as inadequate and unacceptable

Relevant: Closely connected or appropriate to what is being considered

Report: A account given of a particular matter

Rigid: Not being able to be changed or modified

Rob: Take property unlawfully from a person by force

Security: The state of being free from danger

Sequence: A particular order in which related things follow each other

Short: Measuring a small distance from end to end

Specific: Clearly defined or identified

Statistics: A fact or piece of data obtained from a study

Successful: Accomplishing a desired goal

Suitable: Right or appropriate for a particular person

Summary: A brief statement or account of the most important points of something

Test: A procedure intended to determine the quality of something

To begin: To start

Uninformed: Not having the necessary information

Unnecessary: Something not needed

Verify: Make sure something is true, accurate or justified

Tricky: Something that is difficult or problematic



VOCABULARY FOR THE WORKPLACE

Communications in the workplace can be tricky, however you can always follow these tips to understand the best ways to interact with coworkers, clients, providers and of course your boss. In this article we are not talking only about digital communication, but all kinds of communication. For this reason, it is necessary that you pay attention to all the people involved, the way in which the message is sent and how it might be received, the context where the message is sent, the channel you choose to send the message, amongst other aspects.

When communicating with people in the work environment it is necessary to consider who you are talking to. It is different if you are talking to your boss than to a colleague that you consider your friend. Additionally, you need to be careful with the channel that you select. Using email might be perceived as more formal than using chat. Paying attention to the context in which you are speaking or sending the message is also relevant for the way people understand.

Asking questions might also be something challenging, especially for new employees. In certain occasions getting used to the **company’s way of **communicating could be intimidating. Nonetheless, asking questions is a skill that all employees need to develop. There are different types of questions you can ask according to the situation. There are direct questions, which are simple and basic, it is truly something you do not know. Also, there are control questions, which are more oriented to confirm something that you already know, sometimes they clarify if the person is uninformed or lying. You can ask summary questions which are more focused on verifying you have understood all the information. Remember not to ask unnecessary questions, so always evaluate if they are relevant and pertinent.

In sum, having successful communications depends on several aspects like knowing the people you are communicating to, the context in which you are involved, the message you need to deliver, the channel you select, the person who receives the message, the pertinence of the message, and the importance of asking the necessary questions. Always try to evaluate the way in which you communicate, and you will be able to be more successful and assertive.


CREATING CONTENT FOR ENHANCING YOUR PROFESSIONAL PROFILE
Nowadays everything is about content. Content gives you the possibility of entering into people’s lives without being intrusive. Right now, all brands, organizations and people that want to be successful create content so their audience and users feel they have something to learn. In this sense, it is important to create a content marketing strategy which allows you to touch people who surround you.

What is the most common way to create a content strategy?
For starters, it is necessary to identify the type of audience you are communicating with. Knowing their profile is going to allow you to recognize the things that might or might not work with them. Consider that it’s different to be a teacher of math, than being a dev who works in San Francisco. With this in mind, you can start creating a map which includes the topics that you audience might like the most.

There are many formats to reach your audience
Creating content for the audience does not need to be so rigid. In fact, you can show your audience that you have many channels to teach them things. For instance, you can create blog posts, videos, webminars, infographics, instagram stories, and more. Just make sure what the channels are used by the audience you aim to reach and start creating suitable content.

Do it frequently
Creating content is not a matter of one time, one week or one month, if you want that your content strategy works you need to maintain your audience updated. To do this, it is advisable to create a calendar that helps you determine the time in which is pertinent to publish content. This can be as simple as having an excel document where you write the topics you want to cover and the dates to publish them.

These three tips are going to help you create successful content and get recognition in your work environment.


HOW TO USE ENGLISH IN YOUR SOCIAL NETWORKS?
The use of social networks can be very useful when you are looking for a better job. In this class you will learn how to create content for specific social networks.

Be very careful with the way you write (spelling and writing).
Use appropriate vocabulary Don´t be redundant with adjectives and verbs.
Try to be as professional as possible if your profiles are public.
Avoid informal language and abbreviations.



BEST STRATEGIES TO LEARN ENGLISH
We have learned vocabulary for programmers. Now we will see strategies that you can adopt to keep improving.

Read the documentation of the tools you use
Pay attention to the names of the commands and the syntax of the programming languages you use.
Participate in forums and events.



MARKETING STRATEGIES

There are different ways to advertise your business, you can use Google Adwords, Facebook Ads, or you can even have a content marketing strategy. The most important thing is that you identify the best channels to get to your audience and convert as much as possible. With this in mind, you need to create a plan that will allow you to reach the correct audience, create the right ads and content, display this information in the places, and ultimately make more money.

The first thing to do is to describe your client or create a customer persona. In order, to do this define the type of person that will buy your product or get your service. Assign a name to your buyer persona, also think about his or her age. Then, describe the person thinking about their job position, their income, the things they like, the things they do not like, their hobbies, the reasons why they need their product, the social media they use the most, and the reasons why they wouldn’t buy your product. The benefits of doing this include knowing the type of content you need to create for that person.

With all this information you can start thinking about the strategy for advertising your business. For example, if your customer persona uses Facebook, then you can invest money on Facebook Ads. On the other hand, if your customer will probably search for your product on Google, then it’s a good idea to invest money on Google Adwords. Also, consider that no matter the product you need to advertise, it is always a good idea to teach your customers through content that is relevant for them. In this sense, you can always have blog posts to promote your product, service and brand.

Remember that there are other strategies that you can use to have a good relationship with your audience. One of this is email marketing, this can help your customer get register to your website, receive information about promotions and discounts, get all information about updates or product changes. Also, your company needs to pay special attention to the support you provide to customers. This means that always listening to customers and trying to solve the problems they might have is fundamental to have a successful business.

All these strategies can help you improve the quality of your marketing campaigns. Remember the goal is to have a good relationship with your customer to the point in which they start loving your brand.



TIPS FOR CREATING A SUCCESSFUL PITCH IN ENGLISH

Tips for creating a successful pitch in English
In this last class we will learn to present a business idea, or pitch. Remember to keep in mind that it must be very well structured, short and that it really explains what you are selling.

In this class you will see different phrases and expressions that you can use, depending on who you are presenting it to and the type of information you are going to give.

The final challenge for this course is for you to create your pitch and share it in the discussion board. You can write it or record it and share the link.
